'\" te
.\" Copyright 2016 Mark Heily <mark@heily.com>.
.\" Copyright 2015 Nexenta Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH JAILADM 1M "Sep 8, 2015"
.SH NAME
jailadm \- administer jails
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBjailadm\fR \fB-z\fR \fIjailname\fR [\fB-u\fR \fIuuid-match\fR] \fIsubcommand\fR
     [\fIsubcommand_options\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBjailadm\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIjailname\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuuid-match\fR] list
     [\fIlist_options\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBjailadm\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot\fR] \fB-z\fR \fIjailname\fR [\fB-u\fR \fIuuid-match\fR] mark incomplete
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBjailadm\fR utility is used to administer system jails. A jail is an
application container that is maintained by the operating system runtime.
.SH SECURITY
.LP
Once a process has been placed in a jail other than jail \fB0\fR, the process
or any of its children cannot change jails.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternate root (boot environment). This option can only be used in
conjunction with the "\fBlist\fR" and "\fBmark\fR" subcommands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIuuid-match\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unique identifier for a jail, as assigned by \fBlibuuid\fR(3LIB). If this
option is present and the argument is a non-empty string, then the jail
matching the \fBUUID\fR is selected instead of the one named by the \fB-z\fR
option, if such a jail is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIjailname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
String identifier for a jail.
.RE

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.LP
Subcommands which can result in destructive actions or loss of work have a
\fB-F\fR flag to force the action. If input is from a terminal device, the user
is prompted if such a command is given without the \fB-F\fR flag; otherwise, if
such a command is given without the \fB-F\fR flag, the action is disallowed,
with a diagnostic message written to standard error. If a jail installation or
uninstallation is interrupted, the jail is left in the incomplete state. Use
uninstall to reset such a jail back to the configured state.
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBattach\fR [\fB-F\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fIbrand-specific
options\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBattach\fR subcommand takes a jail that has been detached from one system
and attaches the jail onto a new system. Therefore, it is advised (though not
required) that the \fBdetach\fR subcommand should be run before the "attach"
takes place. Once you have the new jail in the configured state, use the
\fBattach\fR subcommand to set up the jail root instead of installing the jail
as a new jail.
.sp
The \fB-F\fR option can be used to force the jail into the "installed" state
with no validation. This option should be used with care since it can leave the
jail in an unsupportable state if it was moved from a source system to a target
system that is unable to properly host the jail. The \fB-n\fR option can be
used to run the \fBattach\fR subcommand, without executing the command. It uses
the output of the "\fBdetach\fR \fB-n\fR" subcommand as input and is useful to
identify any conflicting issues, such as the network device being incompatible,
and can also determine whether the host is capable of supporting the jail. The
path can be "\fB-\fR", to read the input from standard input.
.sp
The jail's brand may include additional options that govern how the jail will
be attached. See \fBbrands\fR(5) for specific brand information.
.sp
The jail being attached must first be configured using the \fBjailcfg\fR (see
\fBjailcfg\fR(1M)) command. This does not apply when running "\fBattach\fR
\fB-n\fR".
.sp
Use the following command to attach a jail:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBjailadm -z my-jail attach\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBboot\fR [\fB--\fR \fIboot_options\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Boot (or activate) the specified jails.
.sp
The following \fIboot_options\fR are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIaltinit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select an alternative executable to be the primordial Process. \fIaltinit\fR is
a valid path to an executable. The default primordial process is
\fBinit\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fIsmf_options\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fIsmf_options\fR include two categories of options to control booting
behavior of the service management facility: recovery options and messages
options.
.sp
Message options determine the type and amount of messages that \fBsmf\fR(5)
displays during boot. Service options determine the services which are used to
boot the system. See \fBkernel\fR(1M) for a listing of the \fB-m\fR suboptions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Boots only to milestone \fBsvc:/milestone/single-user:default\fR. This
milestone is equivalent to init level \fBs\fR. See \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M) and
\fBinit\fR(1M).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBclone\fR [\fB-m\fR \fIcopy\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIzfs_snapshot\fR]
\fIsource_jail\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Install a jail by copying an existing installed jail. This subcommand is an
alternative way to install the jail.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fIcopy\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force the clone to be a copy, even if a "\fBZFS\fR clone" is possible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIzfs_snapshot\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the name of a \fBZFS\fR snapshot to use as the source of the clone. The
\fIsnapshot\fR must be a \fIsnapshot\fR of the source jail taken from a
previous "\fBjailadm\fR clone" installation.
.RE

The source jail must be halted before this subcommand can be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdetach\fR [\fB-n\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Detach the specified jail. Detaching a jail is the first step in moving a jail
from one system to another. The full procedure to migrate a jail is that the
jail is detached, the \fIjailpath\fR directory is moved to the new host, and
then the jail is attached on the new host. Once the jail is detached, it is
left in the configured state. If you try to install or clone to a configured
jail that has been detached, you will receive an error message and the
\fBinstall\fR or \fBclone\fR subcommand will not be allowed to proceed. The
\fB-n\fR option can be used to run the \fBdetach\fR subcommand, without
executing the command. This generates the information needed for running the
"\fBattach\fR \fB-n\fR" subcommand, which is useful to identify any conflicting
issues, such as the network device being incompatible or if the host is capable
of supporting the jail. The information is sent to standard output and can be
saved to a file or piped to the "\fBattach\fR \fB-n\fR" subcommand.
.sp
Use the following command to detach a jail:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# jailadm -z my-jail detach
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The source jail must be halted before this subcommand can be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhalt\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Halt the specified jails. \fBhalt\fR bypasses running the shutdown scripts
inside the jail. It also removes run time resources of the jail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhelp\fR [\fIsubcommand\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display general help. If you specify \fIsubcommand\fR, displays help on
\fIsubcommand\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinstall\fR [\fB-x\fR \fInodataset\fR] [\fIbrand-specific options\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Install the specified jail on the system. This subcommand automatically
attempts to verify first, most verification errors are fatal. See the
\fBverify\fR subcommand.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR \fInodataset\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not create a \fBZFS\fR file system.
.RE

The jail's brand may include additional options that govern how the software
will be installed in the jail. See \fBbrands\fR(5) for specific brand
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlist\fR [\fIlist_options\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the name of the current jails, or the specified jail if indicated.
.sp
By default, all running jails are listed. If you use this subcommand with the
\fBjailadm\fR \fB-z\fR \fIjailname\fR option, it lists only the specified jail,
regardless of its state. In this case, the \fB-i\fR and \fB-c\fR options are
disallowed.
.sp
If neither the \fB-i\fR or \fB-c\fR options are given, all running jails are
listed.
.sp
The following \fIlist_options\fR are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display all configured jails. This option overides the \fB-i\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Expand the display to all installed jails.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request machine parsable output. The output format is a list of lines, one per
jail, with colon- delimited fields. These fields are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
jailid:jailname:state:jailpath:uuid:brand:ip-type
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If the \fBjailpath\fR contains embedded colons, they can be escaped by a
backslash ("\:"), which is parsable by using the shell \fBread\fR(1) function
with the environmental variable \fBIFS\fR. The \fIuuid\fR value is assigned by
\fBlibuuid\fR(3LIB) when the jail is installed, and is useful for identifying
the same jail when present (or renamed) on alternate boot environments. Any
software that parses the output of the "\fBjailadm list -p\fR" command must be
able to handle any fields that may be added in the future.
.sp
The \fB-v\fR and \fB-p\fR options are mutually exclusive. If neither \fB-v\fR
nor \fB-p\fR is used, just the jail name is listed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display verbose information, including jail name, id, current state, root
directory, brand type, ip-type, and options.
.sp
The \fB-v\fR and \fB-p\fR options are mutually exclusive. If neither \fB-v\fR
nor \fB-p\fR is used, just the jail name is listed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmark incomplete\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the state of an installed jail to "incomplete." This command may be
useful in cases where administrative changes on the system have rendered a jail
unusable or inconsistent. This change cannot be undone (except by uninstalling
the jail).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmove\fR \fInew_jailpath\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Move the \fIjailpath\fR to \fInew_jailpath\fR. The jail must be halted before
this subcommand can be used. The \fInew_jailpath\fR must be a local file system
and normal restrictions for \fIjailpath\fR apply.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBready\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prepares a jail for running applications but does not start any user processes
in the jail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBreboot\fR\ [\fB--\fR \fIboot_options\fR]]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Restart the jails. This is equivalent to a \fBhalt\fR \fBboot\fR sequence. This
subcommand fails if the specified jails are not active. See \fIboot\fR subcommand
for the boot options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBshutdown\fR [\fB-r\fR [\fB--\fR \fIboot_options\fR]]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Gracefully shutdown the specified jail. This subcommand waits for all jail
processes to finish; the default timeout is SCF_PROPERTY_TIMEOUT value from
the SMF service system/jails. If the \fB-r\fR option is specified, reboot the
jail. See \fIboot\fR subcommand for the boot options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBuninstall [\fR\fB-F\fR\fB]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uninstall the specified jail from the system. Use this subcommand with caution.
It removes all of the files under the \fIjailpath\fR of the jail in question.
You can use the \fB-F\fR flag to force the action.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBverify\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Check to make sure the configuration of the specified jail can safely be
installed on the machine. Following is a break-down of the checks by
\fBresource/property\fR type:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBjailpath\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBjailpath\fR and its parent directory exist and are owned by root with
appropriate modes . The appropriate modes are that \fBjailpath\fR is \fB700\fR,
its parent is not \fBgroup\fR or \fBworld-writable\fR and so forth.
\fBjailpath\fR is not over an NFS mount. A sub-directory of the \fBjailpath\fR
named "root" does not exist.
.sp
If \fBjailpath\fR does not exist, the \fBverify\fR does not fail, but merely
warns that a subsequent install will attempt to create it with proper
permissions. A \fBverify\fR subsequent to that might fail should anything go
wrong.
.sp
\fBjailpath\fR cannot be a symbolic link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Any \fBfs\fR resources have their \fItype\fR value checked. An error is
reported if the value is one of \fBproc\fR, \fBmntfs\fR, \fBautofs\fR,
or \fBnfs\fR or the filesystem does not have an associated mount
binary at \fB/usr/lib/fs/\fI<fstype>\fR/mount\fR.
.sp
It is an error for the \fIdirectory\fR to be a relative path.
.sp
It is an error for the path specified by \fBraw\fR to be a relative path or if
there is no \fBfsck\fR binary for a given filesystem type at
\fB/usr/lib/fs/\fI<fstype>\fR/fsck\fR. It is also an error if a corresponding
\fBfsck\fR binary exists but a \fBraw\fR path is not specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnet\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All physical network interfaces exist. All network address resources are one
of:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a valid IPv4 address, optionally followed by "\fB/\fR" and a prefix length;
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a valid IPv6 address, which must be followed by "\fB/\fR" and a prefix length;
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a host name which resolves to an IPv4 address.
.RE
Note that hostnames that resolve to IPv6 addresses are not supported.
.sp
The physical interface name is the network interface name.
.sp
A jail can be configured to be either exclusive-IP or shared-IP. For a
shared-IP jail, both the physical and address properties must be set. For an
exclusive-IP jail, the physical property must be set and the address property
cannot be set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrctl\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
It also verifies that any defined resource control values are valid on the
current machine. This means that the privilege level is \fBprivileged\fR, the
limit is lower than the currently defined system value, and that the defined
action agrees with the actions that are valid for the given resource control.
.RE

.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing the \fB-m\fR Option
.sp
.LP
The following command illustrates the use of the \fB-m\fR option.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBjailadm boot -- -m verbose\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRUsing the \fB-i\fR Option
.sp
.LP
The following command illustrates the use of the \fB-i\fR option.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBjailadm boot -- -i /sbin/init\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRUsing the \fB-s\fR Option
.sp
.LP
The following command illustrates the use of the \fB-s\fR option.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBjailadm boot -- -s\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid usage.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBread\fR(1), \fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBzlogin\fR(1), \fBjailname\fR(1),
\fBinit\fR(1M), \fBkernel\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M),
\fBsvc.startd\fR(1M), \fBjailcfg\fR(1M), \fBlibuuid\fR(3LIB),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBbrands\fR(5), \fBnative\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5),
\fBjails\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The \fBjails\fR(5) service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/jails:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
.sp
.LP
The act of installing a new non-global jail is a fresh installation of the
Solaris operating system. A new installation of Solaris must not require
interaction with the user (that is, it must be "hands off"). Because of this,
packages installed in the global jail and all non-global jails cannot contain
request scripts (see \fBpkgask\fR(1M)). If a package did have a request script,
then the creation of a non-global jail could not be done without user
intervention. Any package that contains a request script is added to the global
jail only. See \fBpkgadd\fR(1M).
